docs/server-setup/webhooks_setup.md, before:

---
title: "5 - Webhooks setup"
---
# Webhooks setup
[Original project](https://github.com/adnanh/webhook) by Adnan Hajdarević.

<!-- >Dockerised version: https://github.com/almir/docker-webhook
>Runs on port 9000 - can use NPM to reverse proxy this, however need to add an appropriate firewall rule otherwise the nginx container won't be able to access that service on the host localhost (see https://superuser.com/questions/1709013/enable-access-to-host-service-with-ubuntu-firewall-from-docker-container)
Check the network range for the nginx-proxy-manager_default network and then run a rule based on this on the host, e.g.
`sudo ufw allow from 172.19.0.0/16`
Then setup reverse proxy to the IP of the bridge network gateway (can confirm IP by looking at `ip addr show docker0` on the host) - normally should be 172.17.0.1.

>In theory if the container has been started with a `--add-host host.docker.internal:host-gateway` flag then you should be able to n use host.docker.internal instead, **however at present this doesn't work with NPM**. In Portainer go to advanced container settings > network and add `host.docker.internal:host-gateway` to the 'Hosts file entries'
>![](../images/2022-07-09-18-50-16.png)
> Ensure -verbose -hotreload tags used (for logging and ability to reload hooks without re-running container respectively)

Good guide at https://ansonvandoren.com/posts/deploy-hugo-from-github/ -->
The components consist of: the `webhook` binary, a hooks file, a trigger script and a system service to keep the binary running in the background.

The hooks file tells `webhook` how to handle incoming requests, and which script it should run if it receives an incoming request that matches the pre-arranged criteria, including a shared 'secret'.  The scripts can include items such as [Telegram notifications](https://ansonvandoren.com/posts/telegram-notification-on-deploy/).

Install the `webhook` binary onto server:
!!! quote "Install webhook"
    ``` bash
    sudo apt install webhook
    ```

Create a webhooks directory on the system and create a JSON file for the hooks:
!!! quote "Setup hooks"
    ``` bash
    sudo mkdir /opt/webhook && sudo nano /opt/webhook/hooks.json
    ```
 
Set relevant trigger rules (such as the branch being pushed to).  A v4 UUID is used as a 'secret' and can be generated at https://www.uuidgenerator.net/
??? example "/opt/webhook/hooks.json"
    ``` json linenums="1" hl_lines="29"
    --8<-- "docs/server-setup/hooks.json"
    ```
Now create a script and make it executable once saved:
!!! quote "Install webhook"
    ``` bash
    sudo nano /opt/webhook/triggerscript.sh && sudo chmod +x /opt/webhook/triggerscript.sh
    ```
??? example "/opt/webhook/triggerscript.sh"
    ``` bash linenums="1" hl_lines="7 9 11 13 15 18 19"
    --8<-- "docs/server-setup/scripts/triggerscript.sh"
    ```
Now create the folder from named in `triggerscript.sh` for Github downloads:
!!! quote "Create download directory"
    ``` bash
    mkdir $HOME/repositories/<REPOSITORYNAME>
    ```    
!!! warning "Github"
    Ensure the [Github login process](server_setup.md#install-git-and-connect-to-github) has been completed first before trying to run the trigger script.

Create a service:
!!! quote "Create download directory"
    ``` bash
    sudo nano /opt/webhook/webhooks.service
    ```    
    ??? example "/etc/systemd/system/webhooks.service"
        ``` bash linenums="1"
        --8<-- "docs/server-setup/config/webhooks/webhooks.service"
        ```
Copy across, enable and start the webhook service then check status:
!!! quote "Enable & start webhook.service"
    ``` bash
    sudo cp /opt/webhook/webhooks.service /etc/systemd/system/webhooks.service && \
    sudo systemctl daemon-reload && \
    sudo systemctl enable webhooks --now && \
    sudo systemctl status webhooks
    ```
Create a new webhook site in NPM:

- **Domain Names:** `webhook.(servername).(tld)` (e.g., `webhook.alanjrobertson.co.uk`)
- **Scheme:** http
- **Forward Hostname/IP:** 172.17.0.1 (this is the Docker host, ie the server itself)
- **Forward Port:** 9001
- **Block Common Exploits:** True
- Request a new SSL certificate with Force SSL, HTTP/2 Support, HSTS Enabled, HSTS Subdomains all checked

Go to the Settings > Webhooks page on Github for the relevant repository and click 'Add webhook'

- **Payload URL:** `https://webhook.(servername).(tld)/hooks/redeploy` (e.g., `https://webhook.alanjrobertson.co.uk/hooks/redeploy`)
- **Content type:** application/json
- **Secret:** *the UUID previously generated and placed in the webhooks.json file*
- **Enable SSL verification:** True
- **Which events would you like to trigger this webhook?:** Just the push event
- **Active:** True

Commit message:

important update re ufw and docker for webhook

docs/server-setup/webhooks_setup.md, after:

---
title: "5 - Webhooks setup"
---
# Webhooks setup
[Original project](https://github.com/adnanh/webhook) by Adnan Hajdarević.

<!-- >Dockerised version: https://github.com/almir/docker-webhook
>Runs on port 9000 - can use NPM to reverse proxy this, however need to add an appropriate firewall rule otherwise the nginx container won't be able to access that service on the host localhost (see https://superuser.com/questions/1709013/enable-access-to-host-service-with-ubuntu-firewall-from-docker-container)
Check the network range for the nginx-proxy-manager_default network and then run a rule based on this on the host, e.g.
`sudo ufw allow from 172.19.0.0/16`
Then setup reverse proxy to the IP of the bridge network gateway (can confirm IP by looking at `ip addr show docker0` on the host) - normally should be 172.17.0.1.

>In theory if the container has been started with a `--add-host host.docker.internal:host-gateway` flag then you should be able to n use host.docker.internal instead, **however at present this doesn't work with NPM**. In Portainer go to advanced container settings > network and add `host.docker.internal:host-gateway` to the 'Hosts file entries'
>![](../images/2022-07-09-18-50-16.png)
> Ensure -verbose -hotreload tags used (for logging and ability to reload hooks without re-running container respectively)

Good guide at https://ansonvandoren.com/posts/deploy-hugo-from-github/ -->
The components consist of: the `webhook` binary, a hooks file, a trigger script and a system service to keep the binary running in the background.

The hooks file tells `webhook` how to handle incoming requests, and which script it should run if it receives an incoming request that matches the pre-arranged criteria, including a shared 'secret'.  The scripts can include items such as [Telegram notifications](https://ansonvandoren.com/posts/telegram-notification-on-deploy/).

Install the `webhook` binary onto server:
!!! quote "Install webhook"
    ``` bash
    sudo apt install webhook
    ```

Create a webhooks directory on the system and create a JSON file for the hooks:
!!! quote "Setup hooks"
    ``` bash
    sudo mkdir /opt/webhook && sudo nano /opt/webhook/hooks.json
    ```
 
Set relevant trigger rules (such as the branch being pushed to).  A v4 UUID is used as a 'secret' and can be generated at https://www.uuidgenerator.net/
??? example "/opt/webhook/hooks.json"
    ``` json linenums="1" hl_lines="29"
    --8<-- "docs/server-setup/hooks.json"
    ```
Now create a script and make it executable once saved:
!!! quote "Install webhook"
    ``` bash
    sudo nano /opt/webhook/triggerscript.sh && sudo chmod +x /opt/webhook/triggerscript.sh
    ```
??? example "/opt/webhook/triggerscript.sh"
    ``` bash linenums="1" hl_lines="7 9 11 13 15 18 19"
    --8<-- "docs/server-setup/scripts/triggerscript.sh"
    ```
Now create the folder from named in `triggerscript.sh` for Github downloads:
!!! quote "Create download directory"
    ``` bash
    mkdir $HOME/repositories/<REPOSITORYNAME>
    ```    
!!! warning "Github"
    Ensure the [Github login process](server_setup.md#install-git-and-connect-to-github) has been completed first before trying to run the trigger script.

Create a service:
!!! quote "Create download directory"
    ``` bash
    sudo nano /opt/webhook/webhooks.service
    ```    
    ??? example "/etc/systemd/system/webhooks.service"
        ``` bash linenums="1"
        --8<-- "docs/server-setup/config/webhooks/webhooks.service"
        ```
Copy across, enable and start the webhook service then check status:
!!! quote "Enable & start webhooks.service"
    ``` bash
    sudo cp /opt/webhook/webhooks.service /etc/systemd/system/webhooks.service && \
    sudo systemctl daemon-reload && \
    sudo systemctl enable webhooks --now && \
    sudo systemctl status webhooks
    ```
Create a new webhook site in NPM:

- **Domain Names:** `webhook.(servername).(tld)` (e.g., `webhook.alanjrobertson.co.uk`)
- **Scheme:** http
- **Forward Hostname/IP:** 172.17.0.1 (this is the Docker host, ie the server itself)
- **Forward Port:** 9001
- **Block Common Exploits:** True
- Request a new SSL certificate with Force SSL, HTTP/2 Support, HSTS Enabled, HSTS Subdomains all checked

!!! danger "Reconfigure firewall"
    `ufw` must be reconfigured to allow communication from Docker to the host, otherwise the incoming webhook requests will just time out:
!!! quote "Enable & start webhook.service"
    ``` bash
    sudo ufw allow from 172.19.0.0/16 to any && \
    sudo ufw reload && \
    sudo ufw status
    ```

Go to the Settings > Webhooks page on Github for the relevant repository and click 'Add webhook'

- **Payload URL:** `https://webhook.(servername).(tld)/hooks/redeploy` (e.g., `https://webhook.alanjrobertson.co.uk/hooks/redeploy`)
- **Content type:** application/json
- **Secret:** *the UUID previously generated and placed in the webhooks.json file*
- **Enable SSL verification:** True
- **Which events would you like to trigger this webhook?:** Just the push event
- **Active:** True

You should receive confirmation of a successful ping and a 200 response.

You can check webhook status as above or the full journal:
!!! quote "View logs for webhooks.service"
    ``` bash
    sudo journalctl -u webhooks
    ```
